What is Linux? what is features of linux
What is the History of Linux?
What is the difference between Linux and Unix?
What is the Linux Kernel?
What is BASH?
What is LILO?
What are the Features of the Linux Operating System?
What is the latest version of Linux?
What is the advantage of Open Source?
What is the disadvantage of Open Source?
What is Shell?
How many types of Shells are there in Linux?
What are the basic components of Linux?
How do you open a command prompt when issuing a command?
What is a swap space?
What is the GUI?
Explain File Permissions types in Linux?
What are the environmental variables?
What are the symbolic links?
What are the hard links?
What is redirection?
What are Daemons?
How to become a superuser in Linux?
Describe the root account?
Explain the virtual desktop?
What are the different modes when using the vi editor?
What are inode and process id?
What are the Process states in Linux?
Explain Process Management System Calls in Linux?
Explain File Permission groups in Linux?
What Is a File system in Linux?
Explain different file system types in Linux?
Why LVM is required?
Use of the screen command?
What is umask?
How to set the mask permanently for a user?
What is network bonding in Linux?
What are the different modes of Network bonding in Linux
How to check the default route and routing table?
How to check which ports are listening in my Linux Server?
Where the kernel modules are located?
Explain the distinctions between the init and systemd initialization systems. When would you use each one?
What is the role of a Linux firewall and how to configure it?
How to change the default run level in Linux?
How to share a directory using NFS?
What are the default ports used for SMTP, DNS, FTP, DHCP, SSH, and squid?
How to lock a user account in Linux?
What is the 'ls' command and what it does?
What is grep command in Linux?
What is ps command in Linux?
What is the env command in Linux?
What is the top Command in Linux?
What is netstat command in Linux?
What is lsof command in Linux?
Explain about chmod command?
Explain about chown command?
What is the cp command in Linux?
How to remove a file or directory from the system in Linux?
What is mkdir in Linux?
Explain rmdir command in Linux?
How to exit from vi editors?
How to delete information from a file in vi?
Enlist some Linux to file content commands?
Tell the types of Linux distributions and name some popular distributions.
Why we use LINUX?
What are the features of the Linux operating system?
Differentiate between BASH and DOS?
What is meant by internal commands and external commands?
What is meant by PIPE in Linux?
Describe how a parent and child process communicates with each other?
What is a Stateless Linux Server?
Explain the features of Stateless Linux Server?
What is Zombie Process?
Explain the work of the Ctrl+Alt+Del key combination on the Linux operating system?
Why is Linux considered more secure than other operating systems?
What is the tail command in Linux?
What is the cat command in Linux?
What is the grep command in Linux?
What is ps command in Linux?
What is the env command in Linux?
What is the top Command in Linux?
What is the netstat command in Linux?
What is the lsof command in Linux?
What is the df command in Linux?
What is a du command in Linux?
What is the iptables command in Linux?
What is the difference between Linux and Windows
What does the cd - command do?
What does cd command do?
What does (cd dir && command) do?
What does pushd command do?
What is ls -lSr command?
What is du -s * | sort -k1,1rn | head command used for?
What does this du -hs /home/* | sort -k1,1h command do?
What is df -h command?
What is df -T command?
What is fdisk -l command used for?
How do you kill the program using one port in Linux?
How do you limit memory usage for commands?
How do you get the full path of a file in Linux?
How do you list the contents of tar.gz and extract only one file?
How do you find who is logged in?
How do you check the permissions of each directory to a file?
How do you run the command every time a file is modified?
How to copy text to the clipboard?
How do you check resources usage?
How do you run a command for a limited time?
How do you combine two lines from two sorted files in Linux?