What is interactive and non-interactive shell?
What is the absolute and relative path?
How to create, read and delete files?
How to create and delete a directory?
How to create multiple text files and directories?
What is the use of head and tail command?
How to find the current shell which you are using?
How to find an available shell in your system?
How to create shortcuts in Linux?
Tell me the difference between hard link and soft link?
How will you pass and access arguments to a script in Linux?
What is the significance of $#?
What is the difference between $* and $@?
Explain “s” permission bit in a file?
What are the different types of variables used in Shell Script?
What is the difference between = and ==?
What is the use of a pipe operator? How to execute multiple commands in one line?
What are the different modes of vi editors?
What is redirection?
How to find the status of the process?
How to check memory status?
How to debug a shell script?
Which command is used for comparing the string in the shell script?
What is the difference between $! and $$?
Which command is used to find all information of the user?
Which four fundamental components of every file system?
What is the Crontab?
How many fields are present in a crontab file?
What are the two files of crontab command?
What are the different commands available to check the disk usage?
How to open a read-only file in the Shell?
How to find out how long the system has been running?
How to connect to a remote server and execute some commands?
How to connect to a database server from Linux?
How can I set the default permission to all users on every file which is created in the current shell?
How will I insert a line “ABCD” at every 50th line of a file?
How to find the total disk space used by a specific user?
How to print the login names of all users on a system?
Write a shell script to get current date, time, username and current working directory.
How to check if a directory exists?
Explain the file permissions.
Given a file, replace all occurrence of word “ABC” with “DEF” from 10th line till end in only those lines that contains word “MNO”
How will you find the 19th line of a file using only tail and head command?
How to Use the sed command to replace the content of the file?
if cat fille
ABCD
EFGH
Then O/p should be 
EFGH
ABCD
I want to create a directory such that anyone in the group can create a file and access any person’s file in it but none should be able to delete a file other than the one created by himself. 
We can create the directory giving read and execute access to everyone in the group and setting its sticky bit “t” on as follows: 
How to get the 3rd element/column from each line from a file?
Write down the Syntax for all the loops in Shell Scripting.
How to pass arguments to a script?
How to use arguments in the script?
How to get 5rd element from each line from the file?
how to find process name from process ID?
How to create alias command in shell?
What is the c and b permission field of the file?
How to get 5rd element from each line from the file?
What is the use of a shebang line?
How to add two strings?
How to add two integers?
Write a script to check if a file exists on the system?
Why #!/bin/sh or #!/bin/bash at the beginning of every script?
From given file name find the count of lines containing word  “ABC”
What would be the output of command: echo ${new:-variable}
How to print all array indexes?
How to remove elements from an array with id 3?
Write a script to compare numbers?
What are the types of permission at the file level in Shell?
How  to use comments in shell scripting?
How to use multi-line comments in shell scripting?
Write a script that receive input from user.
Write a script using the AND operator.
Write an example of OR operator.
Write a script for adding multiple values.
Write an example of a function.
How to send mail using shell script?
Write script to print current date and time.
What is $1 and $2 in shell script?
What is the importance of shell scripting?
What is Z in bash?
Is bash a OOP?